=== START of Buying Guides ===

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/how-automatic-vertical-stretch-wrapper-machines-save>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# How Automatic Vertical Stretch Wrapper Machines Save

Working in this industry, I am often in awe at most of the robotic machinery that makes manufacturing and distribution a much simpler and quicker process. We may be geeky, but as engineers, you cannot but be amazed at the invention of vertical stretch wrapper line equipment which can stretch wrap a pallet in under a minute.

It's time-saving stretch wrap machinery such as this that makes such an investment in automated robotics such a worthwhile exercise. Did you know it takes the average person ten minutes to wrap a fully laden pallet? Even then, the wrapping process may not be even. How often does your distributor urge you to switch to an automatic wrapper to make transportation safer?

It's not just their concerns that should provide food for thought. Ensuring your products are safer when being sent to market and retailer around the UK should be a priority. If not for cosmetic appearance, then the reduction in wastage and paying out for the returns because they were damaged en route. The technology behind vertical stretch wrappers saves you money at every turn.

Vertical case packers are continuous motion stretch wrap machinery which can stand upright and wrap a pallet in rapid time. Often only needing one person to operate if semi-automatic. If fully automated, there is no intervention by a human required at all, especially if the whole end of line is connected and the pallets are machine loaded and a conveyor then takes the load to the vertical stretch wrapper machine.

Fitted with a turntable and controlled by a computer panel, you input speeds and sizes, and tech is so advanced, different sized pallet loads can be wrapped without human involvement. Our semi-automatic vertical stretch wrappers utilize a pre-stretch film delivery system and because they wrap much more efficiently, can even save your company up to 50% on stretch wrap expenditure thanks to less wastage and more taut use of the stretch film.

To discuss whether you require an automatic vertical stretch wrapper or horizontal, to find out if you can benefit from having a whole end of line automated for accuracy, speed, safety, and just as importantly, save costs in the short term, then give us a call. We can help plan your distribution line and even enable you to retain cash flow ability with machine finance.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/auto-sealing-machine-for-juice-packaging>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Auto Sealing Machine For Juice Packaging

The food producing chain is a remarkable one where if possible, very little wastage is created before it gets to market. This is pretty much the aim at our company too: ensuring maximum efficiency to minimize shrink wrap wastage and lessen costs with the best auto sealing machine for juice packaging.

Juice in some cases is the derivation of vegetables and fruits used for other products and what remains. While a great many juice products are made especially for market and come at a premium, so-called generic juice may well be sold on by a manufacturer to a juicer to rake back some of the bottom line. In many cases, this will then be pasteurized to offer longer life, especially if the expiry date of the used fruit and veg was closer than wished.

In all instances of liquid packaging, the correct seal has to be applied to ensure the bacteria-free product, which has been heated to kill off the most dangerous cells, needs additional protection from external bacteria. As often juice may remain in warehouses for one or more years and may travel on container ship or lorry for thousands of miles for many months.

A juice auto sealing machine can package liquids in both cartons and bottles which are rinsed clean first. Micro pressure fillers then add each juice variation before the container is capped. In the old days, canneries and their ilk used to employ hundreds of staff. But a century on, most bottling production lines need only employ a handful to monitor and effect preventative maintenance.

There is no argument that an auto sealing machine for juice can save on labor costs and speed up a manufacturing end-of-line operation. However, with our assistance, we can review your requirements and establish a variety of line equipment which will best serve the job and future demand in production.

Shrink wrap on an auto sealing machine for juice packaging will invariably be used with an L sealer shrink wrap machine. Bottles or cartons will be carried by conveyor belt and assembled into pack quantities, wrapped in any number of formations from 3 x 4 to 6 x 3 and so on. The most efficient way to do this is via automation throughout.

Liquids and juices are not the lightest of products. It is recommended throughout the juice industry to use a form of automatic pallet wrappers and palletisers to complete the task of getting your goods to market and shipped rapidly. To talk about your automatic sealing machines for juice production line, call today to speak to an engineer.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/buying-auto-packaging-machines-for-rice-mills>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Buying Auto Packaging Machines For Rice Mills

Asia to Africa and America and the UK, its use is varied from main courses to desserts. While rice is grown abroad, it is shipped in large containers by sea. Upon arrival, a rice manufacturer [auto packaging machines](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/fully-automatic-l-sealers.html) for rice mills is required to complete the process.

While customers buying from supermarkets and specialist retailers take for granted that the rice has been delivered in the packet, as a manufacturer of rice products and distributor, you know it's a more complex operation. Over two-thirds of the world's population use rice to accompany their meals on a daily basis. From departure, rice is washed and de-stoned and stored in containers, delivered to factories UK wide.

An important aspect of an auto packaging machine for rice mills is the ability to seal in the prepared flavour, aromas, and taste, to ensure a quality product and that it remains fresh and spoilage is deterred. This would be unthinkable in today's market without the use of technologically advanced shrink wrap packaging and a variety of heat sealing processes.

Most packaged rice products tend to have a shelf life of up to two years, and the same rice comes in different bag sizes and weights. Therefore, it is a complex end-of-line process that needs thorough planning before a rice auto packaging machine, complimentary line equipment, and modifications can be installed.

Systems you will need to plan for are: sorting of the individual grains of rice and quality, additional spices added, and broken rice also separated. These differing samples then travel down different conveyors to be either bagged or poured into pouches. Filled bags then continue on a conveyor towards a bag sealing machine to contain the rice for longevity.

Other considerations aside from an auto packaging machine for rice mills will be: how the conveyors connect, monitoring systems, labelling of the packets, and use of RFID coding as required. Dealing with numerous 500gm, 1 kilogram, and larger weights should necessitate the implementation of [automatic palletisers](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/pallet-wrap-machines.html) and [pallet stretch wrap machines](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/pallet-wrap-machines.html). Speed of line assured and manual labor restricted.

All of this could come at great expense initially. However, with automated packaging systems comes the need for less paid labor, very few skilled employees as easy to operate, and of course, cash flow can be assisted with our very easy to access machine finance for monthly payments. For tips, advice, and planning for rice auto packaging machines, contact us today.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/shrink-film-shelf-life>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Shrink Film Shelf Life

How long does shrink film last?

Not many people question how long shrink film lasts, but it's an important consideration to make for the market. There are two reasons to ponder how effective and fresh shrink wrap film will remain. You may be tempted to stockpile shrink film rolls and benefit from bulk purchase discounts. Secondly, once rolled off the production line, items may lay in situ for months, even years, before hitting the shop floor.

Does shrink film deteriorate? Will rolls of shrink film remain malleable? Will shrink wrapped products see the shrink film discolor or collapse over time? These are questions we aim to answer briefly below. When it comes to storage in a warehouse, you may think the ambient temperature will not vary too much.

However, if you take into consideration staff requirements of a heated environment and that of seasonal temperatures, you might wish to find a smaller room that is not affected by such changes. The optimum storage area will be dark and away from sunlight, with room temperature being under 35 degrees Celsius and humidity no more than 60%.

Should these guidelines not be adhered to, over time, you can expect shrink wrap to become baggy and have slack edges, which will obviously cause problems when it comes to wrapping the final product. It would be impossible to drill down on exact shrink film shelf life for each product in one article.

Each shrink wrap film manufacturer offers individual data sheets on each line of product. Because each is not made of the same material, minimum corona levels are set to ensure the best adhesion and coloring. In the majority of cases, shrink wrap film, when stored in the correct conditions, can last up to 12 months, but some treated films are only good for three months.

If you are a distributor or are applying shrink wrap on a production line, it's worthwhile talking with your customers to ask how quickly they expect to ship your product to the shop floor. While the majority of faults due to expiry date of shrink wrap applies to performance before the wrapping process has begun, some discoloration and slacking can occur once packaged.

Ensure your customers know that shrink wrap film has a shelf life and that the conditions which the final product should reside within are not too dissimilar to those of storage of the actual shrink wrap rolls. If you have any questions regarding shelf life of shrink film, do get in touch and we'll be happy to assist.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/replace-hand-wrap-with-a-stretch-wrapper-for-pallet-wrapping>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Replace Hand Wrap with a Stretch Wrapper for Pallet Wrapping

If you need to read just one more article to find just one more reason to replace hand wrapping methods with an automated stretch wrapper as a pallet wrapping application, then take heart from this. Whether you select semi-automatic or fully automatic, horizontal, vertical, orbital, or spiral, you will not look back after reading this.

Let's start with the very persuasive reasons first and reducing labor costs. A warehouse manager's ideal job was as a Sergeant Major. Wrap has to be regimental and can only be that way through training and constant replication of the same method. We all know humans cannot do this time and time again without error, and in this industry, turnover of staff is high. After all, who enjoys hand wrapping methods?

If you buy an automated stretch wrapper, you don't need to spend hours training and keeping an eye on them. Training the next person and so on. They won't get tired, wrap unevenly, accidentally squash products, or see the operator get backache or injured. And the pallet wrapping application can wrap ten times as fast. Training involves the press of a button.

Once your product leaves the production line, the first person who sees it after is your customer. How is the pallet wrapped? Is it uniformly wrapped? Was one part of the wrap weaker than another part and saw damage during transport? You'll know when you get a call or invoice for a return. With an automated stretch wrapper, you don't need to ask yourselves these questions.

We all know the phrase "to err is human". Consider how many times one of your employees has got a little paranoid and wrapped an extra turn, you know, erm, just in case. This is a casualty of the hand wrapping method: one extra layer, a weak point in the wrap, damaged film rolls when thrown to the floor; waste, waste, and more wastage; and failed damage control.

For a complete review of your end-of-line pallet wrapping application options, to understand further how robotics can reduce costs, save time, increase production, and cut down on waste, come in for a chat with one of our engineers. Watch a few demos of automated stretch wrappers, bring your own products along, and say goodbye to hand wrapping methods forever!

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/do-you-need-a-cheap-machine-pallet-wrapper>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Do You Need A Cheap Machine Pallet Wrapper

You might be wondering what all the fuss is about, especially if you've been in business a long time. Why would any company need a machine pallet wrap, either fully automated or semi-automated? What is wrong with good old fashioned hard manual labor? At some point, we all realize technology has its place.

It's not something you've completely missed out on. By now, you have probably automated your production line with conveyor belts and in all probability got one or two [shrink wrap machines](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery.html) on the go too. So far, you've held out on the last piece of the chain, but competitors have one, are you missing out?

If you're reading this, then you know several things already. Your haulage company has finally got around to convincing you that loads need to be safer and more secure; manual wrap simply doesn't cut it anymore. A semi-[automatic machine pallet wrap](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/pallet-wrap-machines.html) will wrap your loaded pallets in exactly the same way each and every time: the same torque, evenly wrapped, and no human health insurance concerns to consider.

Now it's time to choose a cheap [machine pallet wrapper](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/pallet-wrap-machines.html) that stems the amount of feedback you're getting on how to move forward, while not breaking the current cash flow and spending too much of the budget on equipment you still think isn't required. We assure you that if you have a medium to large-sized business, a pallet wrap machine will make a noticeable difference.

A semi-automated machine pallet wrap is a simple piece of equipment that has a turntable and a tower attached. Often there is a computerized display which you can program: speed, tightness, and different wrap settings depending on the size of the pallet, just in case your distribution differs in box sizes or shapes.

There are variables to consider too, which we will discuss elsewhere, everything from forklift accessible and automated controls to pre-stretching modes and requiring a ramp. If you have questions and concerns and wonder if your production line or end of distribution line even requires a machine pallet wrap, just give us a call and we'll walk you through the options.

A [machine pallet wrap](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/pallet-wrap-machines.html) need not cost the earth, can be picked up as a secondhand pallet wrap or brand new, and spread across monthly payments on finance. The key elements are: saving on labor costs, employee health insurance and liabilities, and of course, wrapping pallet loads more securely, evenly, and quicker.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/help-with-buying-a-pallet-wrapper>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Help With Buying a Pallet Wrapper

A pallet wrapper applies stretch wrap film around a palletised load to provide stability and protection. As the turntable of the pallet wrapper rotates, the film is stretched tight; it then contracts to pull in even tighter. Many products have a long journey ahead of them before they reach their destination and could be handled several times. Even the best built items require protection against the elements and movement. Nowadays, many hauliers and transport companies insist on minimum standards of packaging before they will accept goods onto their vehicles. A poorly palletised load can also represent a health and safety risk to your staff and those of transport companies, as well as customers and end users. And while the appearance of a load may not be so important, appropriate packaging shows the care and professionalism which today's customer expects.

Semi-automatic pallet wrapper turntable stretch wrapping machines (sometimes mistakenly referred to as "Shrink Wrappers") represent the entry level for many companies. The load is placed on the pallet wrapper turntable, by pallet truck or forklift truck, and the stretch film is attached to it. The operator then starts the machine's turntable; a magic eye sees the pallet, and the reel of film is raised and lowered on its carriage. Speed and tension are adjustable. At the end of the cycle, the operator simply cuts the film and removes the load.

Various turntable and mast sizes are available, enabling the customer to choose the most economical solution to suit the range of likely loads. Film carriage brake, electromagnetic brake, and power pre-stretch film carriages are available, again enabling the customer to choose the most economical solution for his application. For a high-usage pallet wrapper, it is not uncommon for the film savings associated with power pre-stretch to enable a machine “pay-back” time to be measured in months. Options for your pallet wrapper, including loading ramps, pit mounting frames so that we can sink the turntable into the floor, and pneumatic top clamps, are also available.

- A very robust, easy-to-use, simple, reliable design, still capable of 30 pallets per hour. Ramp for manual loading with a pallet truck. Designed to wrap an unstable product that needs holding upright, e.g., an individual door, wardrobe, etc.
- ECO: A very robust, easy-to-use, simple, reliable design, still capable of 30 pallets per hour. Also has pre-stretch driven film carriage.
- ECO2: A very robust, easy-to-use, simple, reliable design, still capable of 30 pallets per hour. Also has pre-stretch driven film carriage.

Not everyone gets hands-on experience in warehousing and logistics at the age of 16. Though if they had, every warehouse, distributor, and retailer would learn very early on to decide upon a pallet wrapper positively. It should not be an afterthought but a complementary piece of machinery to top off your packing line operation.

As a not-so-well-built teen, a towering and stacked pallet can be a little daunting. Truth be told, even grown men with years of experience have succumbed to the perils of a dangerously stacked pallet at least once over the years. From start to finish, a loaded pallet is moved by lorry, fork truck, pallet truck numerous times, and with each movement, the dangers of the shrink wrap or stretch wrap breaking increases.

We've already pondered the question of Machine pallet wrapping versus hand-held pallet wrapping, so let's look at why you'd decide upon a pallet wrapper in the first place. Many distributors and those involved in logistics need to know that the goods they carry in transit are safe and secure. Loads that wobble or are not fixed in place can cause problems with the vehicle or even fall through vehicle sidings.

There is also the labor costs and times for an employee to individually wrap each stacked pallet. Whether it's boxes of irons, flimsy piles of toilet rolls, or packs of 2L bottles of Coca Cola, the circumference of a pallet doesn't change, nor does the maximum height or the time and energy it takes to sufficiently pull taut the wrap to ensure a secure and safe pallet wrap.

Therefore, while you might spend £4000 on an Automatic Pallet Wrapper and shrinkwrap machinery, over the years you will save on both time and money. You will also negate employee injuries and save on waste product—both the product you sell that may be damaged during transport and the shrink film itself—by maximizing on an automated process. There is also the added bonus that a shrink wrap machine such as a pallet wrapper can do several things a human cannot.

Take the Specialist Automatic Pallet Wrapper Eco 2 as an example. It has "Fixed-rate powered pre-stretch carriage (150 / 200 / 250%), with manual wrapping tension adjustment possibilities using the potentiometer."

No gym membership required. It estimates the tautness required and releases the shrink wrap or stretch wrap at the correct speed to match the turning pallet.

Whether you are pallet wrapping to keep products secure and environments safe, or you are doing so to also keep your products clean, free of dust and dirt, when making use of automated pallet wrappers, you are buying into consistency. No holes between sections of wrap, minimum wrap used, no weak cornering, and best of all, a safer working environment.

Don't forget that you can view all of our shrink wrap machinery and pallet wrappers on site at our Hyde Factory in Cheshire. Simply call now for a free demo, and we'll show you why an automated pallet wrapper should not just be a decision to make, but a decision to take!

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/what-is-machine-sleeve-wrapping>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# What is Machine Sleeve Wrapping

Sleeve Wrapping is sometimes called transit or distribution wrapping; the strength and durability is important, rather than appearance. The process is used on trays of cans and bottles, large boxes or print work. It is used to collate products into specific quantities and keep them clean and undamaged during delivery and storage. Heavy-duty polythene is wrapped around the consignment, heated to 200 degrees, then cooled, providing a tight, robust pack. The heat treatment does not affect the product inside whatsoever, and both ends of the sleeve are left open (“bulls eyes”) to allow parcels to be lifted by the wrap.

Shrink wrap is sometimes used to wrap up books, especially adult-oriented ones and certain comics and manga, mainly to prevent them from being read by minors.

Software on carriers such as CDs or DVDs are often sold in boxes that are packaged in shrink wrap. The licenses of such software are typically put inside the boxes, making it impossible to read them before purchasing. This has raised questions about the validity of such shrink wrap licenses.

Shrink wrap is commonly used as an overwrap on many types of packaging, including cartons, boxes, beverage cans, and pallet loads. A variety of products may be enclosed in shrink wrap to stabilize the products, unitize them, keep them clean or add tamper resistance. It can be the primary covering for some foods such as cheese, meats, vegetables, and plants. Heat-shrink tubing is used to seal electric wiring.

Shrink bands are applied over parts of packages for tamper resistance or labels. It can also combine two packages or parts.

Sleeve wrapping machines designed for producing transit packs in PE shrink film. Two rolls of flat PE are sealed producing a “curtain” of film. The pack travels into this “curtain” of film producing a sleeve around the pack, which shrinks tightly in the tunnel.

The most commonly used shrink wrap is polyolefin. It is available in a variety of thicknesses, clarities, strengths, and shrink ratios. The two primary films can be either cross-linked, or non-cross-linked. Other shrink films include PVC, Polyethylene, Polypropylene, and several other compositions.

Coextrusions and laminations are available for specific mechanical and barrier properties for shrink wrapping food. For example, five layers might be configured as EP/EVA/polyester/EVA/EP, where EP is ethylene-propylene and EVA is ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer.

Shrink wrap is also commonly used within more industrial applications using a heavier weight shrink film. The principles remain the same with a handheld heat gun. The following shrink wrap applications are becoming more widely used and accepted:

- Industrial shrink wrap containment of large plant equipment/components,
- Scaffold wrap containment of buildings/bridges,
- Building temporary shrink wrap structures for storage or other business operational uses,
- Marine shrink wrapping of boats and other vehicles,
- Shrink wrapping of palletized freight,
- Disaster contingency and relief projects such as damaged buildings/roofs.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/why-or-how-should-i-shrink-wrap-fruit-and-veg>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Why or How Should I Shrink Wrap Fruit And Veg?

Being involved in the fruit and veg industry, you have probably come across competitors who shrink wrap produce before delivery. In fact, many supermarkets recommend and prefer that certain ranges of their fresh foods are packaged in shrink wrap form.

## Fresher

A variety of different scientific studies have shown that produce stays fresher for longer once contained within shrink wrap, as opposed to being open to the elements. Physiological loss in weight and loss of firmness is reduced across many varieties, and color can also be extended.

## Handling

While a little costlier, there is no doubt that customers prefer to know that fruit and veg are handled with care and in clean environments before they end up in the kitchen. From picking to packaging, all companies will ensure safe procedures for handling, but what about the shop floor and in transport? The additional confidence in final purchase is clear.

## Transporting

There can be a high wastage factor when it comes to transporting fruit and vegetables. While there is much disdain about supermarket policy surrounding ugly fruit, wastage increases when bruised fruit and veg are discarded upon final delivery.

Shrink-wrapped produce does not suffer the same liabilities as boxed produce. Today's market stalls are not heavily stocked by local producers; often the journey is across borders, through countries, and across oceans. Airborne contaminants and insects are also taken out of the delivery chain.

## Display

Supermarkets have hit on a new way to increase produce profitability merely by wrapping on site or at the point of production by the supplier—either wrapping a variety of veg and fruit or one type in sealed enclosures. A producer could benefit from this slight increase in packaging costs and reap some of that profit too, and of course, additional business from other retailers.

## Recycling

Quite, there is the aspect that for hundreds of thousands of years we have survived eating fruit that has been handled by others, and that the additional shrink wrap could be seen as unnecessary. However, solutions such as Polyolefin Shrink Film are fully recyclable and food safe, ensuring you and your client's carbon footprint is fully accountable.

## Investment

Taking into account all of the above, you might ponder whether investment would be worthwhile. Long-term, it might well be, as the market for shrink wrap produce can only grow further. Increasingly more shelf space is allotted to wrapped produce over fresh produce counters.

Before any shrink wrap machinery is purchased, consider the benefits of being ahead of your competitors. Ask clients if they are willing to assist with the funding of such an exceptional way to keep fruit and veg fresher, safer, and more profitable for all concerned.

There are a variety of different machines and systems that can aid in the introduction of shrink wrapping fruit and veg before despatch or on site at a supermarket or distribution center. Contact us to find out how your produce can be best presented, kept safe and clean, and to truly put your company on the map.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/what-is-the-cheapest-supplier-for-shrink-film>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# What Is The Cheapest Supplier For Shrink Film

As a business, buying a [shrink wrap machine](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery.html) to streamline production costs is just the start of the journey to a more profitable enterprise. As we advise from the outset after installing your shrink machinery, we like to consider ourselves very competitive on the supplies you need and being the cheapest supplier for shrink film and shrink wrap in the market.

But before you get to achieving the greatest savings on shrink wrap, you should contemplate which shrink film is best all round for your product. Upon installation, you will have been provided detailed information on which shrink film is best for achieving the results you require. We supply most, if not all, types of shrink film at low cost.

There are several types of shrink wrap: Polythene, Polyolefin, and PVC, and these are all available in different variables of thickness. Cheap Polythene film comes in 13 microns right up to 70, and you can order special sizes as per your requirements. This type of shrink wrap is perfect for single items as well as trays.

Some companies choose cheaper [Polyolefin shrink film](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-films/polyolefin-shrink-film.html) to wrap hampers and presentation packs. The beauty of this material is that it is tear-resistant and offers fantastic tensile strength. Available in P3, P5, it is especially good to use in direct contact with food and produce. Coming as layered shrink film and in microns from 15 to 25.

The cheapest supplier for shrink film usually has minimum order limits to ensure savings can be passed on to the customer. We operate in a similar fashion, and half-tonnes for polythene and Polyolefin can be ordered as either single rolls or by the pallet load. Obviously, the more you order, the better the discount, and of course, free delivery assured over £35.

You need not worry about the longevity of [shrink film](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-films/polyolefin-shrink-film.html). Simply talk to our sales representatives, and they will gauge your requirements and shelf life of each of the shrink wrap you order, ensuring that you don't end up with shrink wrap that will expire before use.

We are also the cheapest supplier for shrink film when it comes to [Centre folded PVC](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-films/pvc-shrink-films.html), whether 15, 19, or 25 microns, and again, custom requests are welcome. If you are searching for the cheapest supplier for shrink film, but find prices lower elsewhere, do please contact us for offers on bulk prices as we can probably beat the competitor and long-term become your trusted supplier and always on next-day delivery.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/compare-cheap-shrink-wrapping-machinery-online>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Compare Cheap Shrink Wrapping Machinery Online

Comparing shrink wrap options is an important process to complete before deciding on which avenue to take. Weighing up manual labor versus automated machines, choosing cheap [shrink wrapping machinery](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery.html) is made possible in several ways, however. Is your product of one size or varied? Do you expect to exceed current production line speed? And will the chosen machine enable an increase in orders?

Answering these and other questions allows you to choose a small size of operation. You can, of course, go for the cheap option on a production line, but you need to ensure any secondhand packaging machinery that you take receipt of is in full working order. We do sell secondhand shrink wrapping machines that have been refurbished; however, if budget affords, you should always go in for a new machine for the expected guarantee and warranties that will be afforded to you.

There is a more business-like way to get cheaper shrink wrapping machinery that both entrepreneurs new to their field of industry and existing producers and distributors can take advantage of. We have assisted many new start ups and those with expansion plans by offering machine finance.

It enables you to take on the burden of an expensive shrink wrap machine and spread the cost over a certain time. With 0% interest, this effectively makes shrink wrapping machinery cheaper, as you can prolong the purchase expense. Sometimes lease-back can also work if the bank is willing to balance your investment and obvious calculations of return on investment with an increase in production and revenue.

Perhaps making better use of staff and moving away from manual labor to automation, which itself leads to machinery lowering overheads in both the short and long term, is an idea. These machines can work at ten times and sometimes one hundred times faster than a human. While monitoring of a production line's efficiency will always require human attention; reducing manual labor leads to less overheads, enabling your business to take on shrink wrapping machinery that's cheaper to run.

No company director wants a whirlwind Willy Wonka chocolate factory shop floor, quite the opposite, in fact. With each element of shrink film machinery refined to do the job in the quickest time. Whether you need [L Sealers](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/l-sealer-with-tunnel.html), [flow wrappers](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/flow-wrappers.html), [automated label shrink tunnels](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/label-shrink-tunnels.html), simply ask us for a quote and demonstration, and we'll show you how easily cheap shrink wrapping machinery can become when you offset the cost against overhead reductions.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/can-i-save-money-on-thick-shrink-wrap-film>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Can I Save Money on Thick Shrink Wrap Film?

Someone in your business is currently tackling the problem of reducing overheads on shrink film. They believe that they can literally cut corners on expenditure by changing your production line's use of thick shrink wrap film, as they have worked out that the thicker the shrink film, the costlier it gets to wrap each and every product.

This person may have a point, so it's worthwhile listening, but do pick up the phone and talk to us about your shrink wrap machinery and set up before making wholesale changes, as changing film usually means measurement changes to machinery too. Having dealt with so many niche businesses over the years, we pretty much have the instant knowledge to hand which tells us which thin or thick shrink wrap film is best for each usage.

Your wannabe accountant is somewhat correct because [Polyolefin film](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-films/polyolefin-shrink-film.html) and [PVC film](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-films/pvc-shrink-films.html), while being measured in the same microns and gauges, actually operate differently to each other. PVC is usually bought to prevent tears and rips and is more brittle and less stretchy. Polyolefin, on the other hand, is more elastic, but side by side, a PVC 19 microns is pretty much similar to that of a 15 micron polythene film.

The cost of the various thick shrink wrap film is definitely something your bean counter will be looking at; the use of which may escape them, however. PVC has been made to work directly with some foodstuffs, but only certain types that have been food authority approved, while Polyolefin is pretty much accepted as being food safe. It comes down to usage, transport, and wear thereafter whether PVC will be cost-effective over Polyolefin.

In the end, you don't want an increase in damaged products being returned because of a bad decision on trying to save costs. At the present time, it works out cheaper to buy 1200 meters of 300 x 600 15 micron Polyolefin over that of 1250 meters of 300 x 600 19 micron PVC, though you may be able to get more worth out of the extra stretchy Polyolefin, which would make such a choice even cheaper. And yes, most shrink wrap machines can accept both types of film.

So, should you swap out thick [PVC shrink wrap film](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-films/pvc-shrink-films.html) for the equivalent gauge in [Polyolefin](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-films/polyolefin-shrink-film.html)? Again, it depends on the journey and handling of the product in the future. PVC will always be more brittle, even though they have the same thickness. It's well worth your time and effort spending a few minutes on the phone asking if you can save costs on changing the PVC thick shrink wrap film for an equivalent gauge in Polyolefin, or if there's another way you can drive down costs and improve production and end-of-line procedures.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/top-10-reasons-to-shrink-wrap-your-products>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Top 10 Reasons to Shrink Wrap Your Products

Top 10 reasons To Shrink Wrap Your Products.

Often do we hear, “Oh, I didn’t know that could be shrink wrapped.” Well, it can, and in all honesty, 90% of products in their lifetime have, in fact, probably been under some sort of shrink wrapping and been through the machines we sell, service, and maintain.

Look around when you’re next in a newsagent or the supermarket. Shrink wrapping is a silent superhero of the packaging world.

Shrink Wrapping Supplies often get asked, “Is this beneficial to my product?” and the answer is always the same: Yes. However, there is more than one reason why it’s good to shrink wrap.

We’ve compiled this list of the top 10 reasons to shrink wrap, and why it’s beneficial to you, your bottom line, and ultimately your customers.

The Top 10 Reasons to Shrink Wrap your products are

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/why-a-automatic-horizontal-stretch-wrapper-for-furniture>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Why a Automatic Horizontal Stretch Wrapper for Furniture

As engineers, we find this industry really simple to provide for and wish you to understand that what may at first appear complex can be resolved after careful planning and research. There's not much difference between an automatic horizontal stretch wrapper for furniture and that of a vertical door stretch wrapper that can hold the finished product upright.

Only that certain end-of-line speeds can be effected in a similar fashion, and that one which operates without a rotary arm can process many different lengths and sizes of products. Automatic horizontal stretch wrap machines come as custom-made, for boxes and smaller items and furniture pieces like doors and cabinets, right through to orbital and spiral wrappers which enable a 360-degree wrap whilst the product is laying flat to the conveyor.

Trust us, it didn't involve that much science and technology to design a surface which had a gap in the middle to enable the wrap free access. However, that said, the moving parts are designed with a high finish, with bearings built to last the test of time. It's the technology behind the rotary ring, efficiency, and smoothness of rotational speed, and the cutting devices that make the stretch wrap machinery excel at its job.

These machines can also come as semi-automatic and fully automated stretch wrap systems. If you are currently manually wrapping or having difficulty getting distribution timed correctly when wrapping roofing, flat packs, windows, etc., you will be astounded at the cost savings of the semi-automatic horizontal stretch wrappers for furniture and long box horizontal stretch wrapper.

Any distributor or producer that isn't using end-of-line machines as an automated process when dealing with heavy, obtuse, and hard-to-handle objects is causing more work for themselves. An investment in automatic stretch wrap operations will reduce expenditure on labor force, stretch film, and enable you to double up on meeting demand.

If you don't believe us—and who would when someone states you can save up to 50% on stretch wrap costs, re-assign current operators, and streamline production time—come in and visit us for a demo. Furniture horizontal stretch wrappers and vertical wrappers work extremely fast, can operate practically non-stop across three shifts a day, and deliver results and overhead savings from the second they're installed.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/choosing-the-best-shrink-wrap-machine-for-warehouses>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Choosing The Best Shrink Wrap Machine For Warehouses

Warehouse managers have the unenviable task of dealing with fast-moving inventory, constant deliveries, and probably too often, dealing with the fallout of a buyer's mistake. Whether you are in charge of a 5,000-square-foot warehouse attached to a supermarket or a 200,000 sq ft distribution center, choosing the best shrink wrap machine for warehouses will make you a hero.

Your warehouse is organized from bottom to top, nearest exits to furthest away, and no matter what you do, shop floor staff are always requesting pallets be moved onto the shop floor or staff pop in for individual boxes one at a time. Problems arise when second, third, and fourth level pallets, whether accessible by a mezzanine or not, start to become unstable.

Health and safety is one of your biggest oversights, on top of ensuring your warehouse is manageable, accessible to all, and tidy. Uneven loads, half pallets, pallets of returned stock awaiting despatch, freezer storage, sorting produce for shop floor arrival, and keeping high-valued electronics and dangerous goods away from the lightest of fingers. All situations to be solved by the best shrink wrap machines for warehouses? Let's see...

### Seasonal Products

80 boxes of crackers, 90 fairy lights, 100, 110, oh, 120 artificial Christmas trees... A buyer over-ordered, but it's your problem to store them for another 8 months.

### Freezer Storage

Boxes of frozen goods are seriously heavy. Can you really rely on manual labor to ensure the stretch wrap is sufficiently in place before the pallet trucks start moving again?

### Firework Safety

You will have already had a container placed on site to abide by existing laws, but you know for additional security, extra taut stretch wrap will keep boxes sealed and no fireworks will be getting loose or accidentally falling.

### Produce & Goods In

While fruit and veg tends to go straight to the shop floor, occasionally goods need consolidating for later in the day. Food-grade Polyolefin to keep moisture, dirt, and dust at bay...

### Returns

The best shrink wrap machine for a warehouse—your warehouse—is only deemed to be the best if it handles those dreaded returned goods pallets effectively. Faulty goods, damaged electronics, and any item that can't be written off on site and thrown needs to be kept secure for a full refund at source.

Whose responsibility is all of the above? Not the floor manager, not the cleaner, not the truck driver, and definitely not the store manager who knows to steer clear of the warehouse at all times. The best shrink wrap machine for warehouses in the above instances is probably a semi-automatic pallet wrapper.

If you need help choosing the best shrink wrap machine for your warehouse or distribution center, then give us a call. It's not all about production lines and whole end-of-line scenarios. There are far more single-roll shrink wrap and stretch wrap rolls in use than there are in machines. One of our dreams is to replace manual labor rolls with shrink wrap machinery, no matter how small, to make your life easier.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/choosing-the-best-shrink-wrap-machine-for-retailers>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Choosing The Best Shrink Wrap Machine For Retailers

Sometimes running a shop floor is like singing a Queen anthem, “Another One Bites the Dust... and Another One's Gone…” We're of course talking about your products for sale and loss prevention. Can choosing the best shrink wrap machine for retailers really save you and your customers repeat aggravation and lead to more repeat sales instead?

It is incredible how many people want a discount or won't buy an item if the packaging has a dent, scratch, or the box has been punctured or ripped. It is more of a coup for the manufacturer's marketing team that a box is an essential part of the present-giving process instead of the actual product itself. Obviously, bike manufacturers haven't quite cottoned on to the carton dressage effect yet.

As engineers of UK shrink wrap machines, you might not think your company as a retailer is our target market. But you couldn't be more wrong. We have been telling retailers like yourselves that to decrease losses on damaged goods, it's really easy to reseal items on the premises if contracts permit and there's no damage to the actual product inside. It goes without saying that re-shrink wrapping food and body personal items is not on the agenda.

We want you to take the term SHRINKAGE and turn it into a POSITIVE. In retailing, shrinkage obviously means to write off amounts due to products being damaged after receipt. Why not turn SHRINKAGE into a NEW SHRINK AGE. Every retailer that takes our advice and begins using a shrink wrap machine for retailers, even if it is just a portable L bar sealer, sees a dramatic decrease in items written off.

Why? Because ripped packaging is not appealing. It makes a person ponder and think twice as to whether someone has worn a top or if it was returned. Whether parts are missing on a toy, or if a box of highly expensive electronics has been opened, returned, and parts are missing.

We're not suggesting or advocating that you cheat the customer, merely check components, inspect, and ensure everything is valid, and reseal the box or packaging with a new layer of shrink wrap after choosing the best shrink wrap machine for supermarkets. Large or small, as long as the product is re-wrapped effectively, the customer is none the wiser, and your loss prevention targets are met.

We have engineers on the end of the telephone right now, ready to receive your calls and to assist you with choosing the best shrink wrap machine for retailing operations. Both large and small businesses can reduce wastage, stop discounting, and increase profit margins, all thanks to the implementation of a backup, low-cost shrink wrap machine.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/manual-shrink-packaging-machine-vs-second-hand-auto>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Manual Shrink Packaging Machine Vs Second Hand Auto

There are companies out there in the big old production line world that, even with our fantastic machine finance options, still can't make cash flow meet the payments required to take on new [shrink wrap machinery](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery.html). That doesn't mean that you can't switch some of your manual shrink packaging machines over to semi-automatic machinery.

Don't misunderstand us. Even new [L bar sealers](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/l-sealer-with-tunnel.html) can be fully manually operated, as that's their intended use. Any form of automation is not ideal for every scenario. A company that requires more robotic influence is one that is finding it difficult to meet demand, or wishes to increase their rate of production or distribution without expanding the factory shop floor with more manual labor and the inherent costs that come with labor force expansion.

Though in the same vein, your business can't currently afford to switch from manual shrink packaging machines to brand-spanking new, shiny, stainless steel shrink wrappers. As reinvestment in the bottling production line or changing over to more productive picking software was more essential. So what's the solution? As hinted in the title, why not consider if a manual shrink packaging machine could be bettered by a secondhand automatic shrink machine, increasing the rate of products wrapped per hour?

Your business need not upgrade to automation across every single element of the line. Just because you buy a powered rollered conveyor belt to stop employees wasting time walking and carrying heavy objects, which is increasing your product wastage through slips and falls, as well as becoming a time issue, doesn't mean you need to buy an automatic friction feeder straight away.

If you do have a budget for a large pneumatic semi-auto L sealer with heat chamber, you may instead be able to purchase a secondhand L sealer with shrink tunnel and a carton sealer and labelling machine. By meeting an increase in demand, in the near future, you can truly look at switching over all manual shrink packaging machine operations from secondhand auto to brand new shrink wrap machines using machine finance options, and we'll be with you every step of the way.

To find out if you could benefit from changing any of your manual shrink packaging machines to a more automated operation, drop us a line by email or give us a call. You can talk to our engineers, and they will review your end-of-line operations and discuss budgetary requirements. If machine finance isn't an option, then a refurbished shrink wrap machine most definitely should be.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/upgrading-from-manual-shrink-wrap-equipment>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Upgrading From Manual Shrink Wrap Equipment

Have you ever considered upgrading from manual shrink wrap equipment to [semi automatic](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery.html) or to fully automated shrink film systems? You've been sat at your desk looking over your financial figures for the last quarter. A) You're really happy at completing almost the same workload as last month, and the usual peak season is around the corner, or B) You're slightly concerned that while your cash flow is peaking, it's the same run-of-the-mill business it always has been.

There are three types of business people, in our view. The Mum and Dad operation, happy to be local, stay local, and be that way until retirement. They can benefit from automating shrink wrap processes, but really aren't that fussed. They would see an upturn in line efficiency and save money, but again, they don't consider investing in shrink wrap equipment a major concern.

Then there is business number two. They have two shifts during the day operating six until 2 pm and 1 pm until 9 pm. Each rotates between job specifications to keep it fresh. One prints and sticks labels on boxes manually, another picks orders and packs, and at the end of the week, everyone chips in and uses a roll of tape to seal boxes and then shrink wraps their assembled orders on pallets ready for despatch.

It's a highly efficient operation—well, if it was still 1963. All it would take is a little marketing, some understanding of a faster production line, and this business would probably grow overnight and expand exponentially thanks to upgrading from manual shrink wrap equipment to even simply [semi automatic wrapping machines](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery.html).

Then there's yourself. You're pretty clued up as to what is going on in the world. You have already upgraded parts of your production line. Computerized systems, automated picking orders, and software for delivery routes. Your only problem is turning your ever-expanding operation into one that retains cash flow long enough for investment. Money for that [semi automatic L bar sealer](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery.html), the funky new flow wrapper, how about a carton sealer, and wouldn't it be wonderful to stop Fred going round in circles and have a semi-automatic pallet wrapper too?

Forget the Mum and Dad operation and don't worry about your competitor who can't see the pallet for the trees. Upgrading from manual shrink wrap equipment to semi-automatic is as simple as one phone call. We offer machine finance that helps your business manage cash flow, and buy much-needed new machinery, and develop your business and meet demand. Call us today!

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/automated-vs-manual-shrink-wrap-machines>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Automated vs Manual Shrink Wrap Machines

Have you ever met a salesman who says you don't need what they're selling? Is it reverse psychology, I wonder? We'd like to discuss in brief the possibility of [automated shrink film machinery](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/fully-automatic-l-sealers.html) vs [manual shrink wrap machines](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/chamber-machines.html). There's no irony in the initial question, as we can offer you manual, semi-automatic, and fully automatic wrapping machines.

That's the beauty of this industry: unless a client really wants to go back one hundred years and stick with manual labor. Then either way, your best foot forward is a robotic one, even if a human is required to operate most of its functions. As with any automation, there are several pros and cons; most of those begin with cost.

When it comes to automated versus [manual shrink wrap machines](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/chamber-machines.html), is upgrading prohibitively expensive? While the world is still experiencing some form of recession and cash flow can be staggered, there is always a way of enjoying finance options without the expense of turning to a bank or re-mortgaging your second home for the second time.

We offer finance, so give us a call. With cost resolved partly, you might also consider a secondhand shrink wrap machine; while not new, you'll still increase the rate of products wrapped per minute over and above a manual shrink wrap machine. If cost of entry is one issue, the flip side has to be in decreasing the cost of labor.

A semi-automatic operation can increase the speed of a production line, enable you to increase demand and meet it, then cost should then be more than matched by income. Another tangent to consider when comparing automated vs manual shrink wrap machines is floor space. Units can be mobile, but most production lines need to be in place full-time. Do you need bigger premises or perhaps with less manpower, smaller premises?

If you want decisive feedback on whether you can afford automated [shrink film machinery](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery.html) over and above your current manual shrink wrap machines, give us a call. We have all the tips and advice and offer assistance in making the choices that could lead to more efficiency in your production and/or distribution end-of-line operations. Cost cutting, meeting demand, being eco-friendly—that's right up our shrink tunnel.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/semi-automatic-shrink-wrap-machine-for-print>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Semi Automatic Shrink Wrap Machine For Print

Some may believe print production is going out of fashion, but people are still impressed by good old print text and color photos when it comes to presentation, which is of course why your interest in buying [semi automatic shrink wrap machines](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/semi-automatic-l-sealers.html) for print and paper production lines is not swayed. As newspapers close, procurement of brochures, booklets, pamphlets, and numerous forms of print media is still steady.

The majority of a printer's work today is completed with computer software. Fonts, pictures, text, and arrangement of these are computer-aided, and often the final design is mass printed in the hundreds of thousands. There is no room or time for mistakes. This is something we understand all too well. Any semi-automatic shrink wrap machine for printers that aids in end-of-line production has to be refined and rapidly processed for swift despatch, often on next-day delivery.

The most commonly used shrink wrap machines for the printing industry are flow wrappers and L sealing machines. These are both fully autonomous and semi-automatic ensembles, which feature a conveyor belt as an in-feed from any inbound sorting lines and will have either a heat tunnel or manual or auto side sealer on continuous motion.

For small jobs, shrink wrap printing equipment could be solved by manually operated sleeve sealers using single-wound polythene shrink film. Large projects with runs into the thousands, which may also involve the packaging and wrapping of books, may need high-speed semi-automatic shrink wrap machines.

These production lines will usually be completed with full-color labelling machines and RFID tracking for distribution purposes. You may require the use of an automated palletiser and automatic pallet wrapper machine to completely drive down costs, ensure secure wrapping is replicated, and that projects can be signed off in as quick a time as possible.

To find out which [semi automatic shrink wrap machine](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/semi-automatic-l-sealers.html) for printing media and end-of-line solution would best suit your company requirements, contact us today for a complete review of your current set up. If currently making use of costly manual labor, we can automate several processes for speed and efficiency, ensuring your printed media gets to market and is distributed safely, securely, quickly, and in the best condition possible.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/shrink-wrap-machinery-for-food>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Shrink Wrap Machinery For Food

The last bit of publicity any food producer wants is scare stories about their food packaging. Something that perhaps some of your nearest and dearest competitors have succumbed to. Thankfully, British law is quite stringent when it comes to food safety and checks, but choosing the correct shrink wrap machine for food presentation packaging and keeping the dangerous elements at bay is a continuous battle for all concerned.

Because food items are so rightly regarded as needing to be packaged and kept within a safe environment, it's not only the food sealing machine that needs to be designed with food in mind, but a certain thought process applied to the type of food-grade shrink film that should also be used. While many machines can swap out different types of PVC and [Polyolefin film](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-films/polyolefin-shrink-film.html), the choice could well be crucial.

Shrink Wrapping Supplies not only build custom shrink wrap machinery for food from stainless steel, which can be deep cleaned on a regular basis, and the surrounding area will be fit with the correct atmospheric conditions adhered to. We also complement the service by integrating one of many food-specific shrink wrap options which not only act as safeguards against external dangers but also act as food presentation packaging.

Because [shrink wrap](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-films.html) is clear and see-through, it is imperative that the food it envelops remains fresh by appearance as well. In partnership with a variety of vendors, we have developed a range of stretch shrink film seals for different fresh foods that prevent liquid leakage, contamination, and can prevent heat exposure through the use of base polymers which enable fast shrinking at low temperatures.

Yes indeed, the shrink wrap tunnel element can cause food to be harmed while packaging. It's not simply a case of ensuring any shrink wrap machine for food presentation packaging offers a brilliant wrap with no eyes or baubles, but any element of overheating can cause bacteria to be resurgent or congealed liquids to cause display problems.

Whether you require all stainless steel conveyor belts, custom-built shrink tunnels that circulate air better at faster rates and low temperatures, or [automatic side sealers](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/fully-automatic-l-sealers.html) or [semi automatic L sealers](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/fully-automatic-l-sealers.html) for food with a variety of in-feed and out-feed alternatives, we're sure the shrink wrap machinery for food presentation packaging that we supply—both the machine and specialist food-grade Polyolefin and PVC shrink film—will lead to better performance, lower energy, and lower wrap costs. Most important of all, secure and safe delivery of well-presented food items from your production line.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/secondhand-packaging-machinery>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Secondhand Packaging Machinery

In the Western world, we are what is known as a throwaway society. From clothes and shoes to toys and furniture, ask yourself the last time you repaired anything rather than just throw away and buy anew. A business doesn't always have such disposable income at the outset, and this is something we understand all too well and why we refurbish secondhand packaging machinery to tip-top condition for reuse.

As engineers, we appreciate that anything that is made well in the first instance can be repaired to the same superior standard. That may mean swapping out older parts, re-oiling, and making good on visible blemishes, but as we are invariably dealing with metallic parts, anything from a secondhand L sealer to secondhand shrinkwrapping machinery for food can be deep cleaned, electronics checked, and sold as a renewed unit.

[Second hand packaging machinery](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/used-machinery.html) can often be bought up to 40% cheaper than newer models. While we do offer finance and easily managed payments for all qualifying clients, it is possible that a whole end-of-line operation could set you back more than your budget can afford. Because machines are thoroughly deep cleaned, checked by our engineers throughout, and fully tested, you can rely on secondhand as if buying new.

Please call for the latest stock levels on secondhand flow wrappers, conveyor belts, liquid filling machines, and options on secondhand L sealer. Just because they are refurbished doesn't mean custom additions can't be made to them. If you require additional in-line feeders, shrink chambers and tunnels attached, or electronics upgraded, all is possible thanks to engineers knowing these machines, no matter which brand, inside and out.

Do take note that we don't just resell secondhand packaging machinery and leave you to cope with any unforeseen problems. All of our products are proffered with 24-hour breakdown support, either on site or remote, and having supplied thousands of [refurbished shrink wrap machines](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/used-machinery.html) to clients, we know the likely lifespan of each model sold on.

So please do contact us today to get a deal on a [secondhand L sealer or any other machine](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/used-machinery.html) we currently have in stock. We can also source older products and rebuild upon command. For a quote on secondhand shrinkwrapping machine, complete our short enquiry form, and we'll call back with options at your earliest convenience.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/a-sealing-machine-for-food-packaging>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# A Sealing Machine For Food Packaging

While any shrink film choosing production line has to be secure and safe, choosing the correct sealing machine for food packaging is most definitely one of the most important decisions to take when complying with British law. Meat and dairy producers usually choose stainless steel shrink machines to ensure food quality standards remain, but bottle, jar, and carton operations can often select a cheap painted steel shrink machine.

There are several reasons why a food sealing shrink wrap machine should be chosen over any run-of-the-mill option. The consequences are not just immediate but can result in problems further down the line if not wrapped sufficiently. While the area in which a product is packed and wrapped needs to be kept clean, the shrink film has to be strong enough not to suffer rips and tears but also kept free of air and external interference.

Often it is the case that a business can lose a lot of money on returned products that have become damaged before reaching the shop floor. In concert with these issues, some retailers and supermarkets like to have a smaller sealing machine for food packaging on site, rectifying any damage so a product can still be sold on to the customer.

High-quality food packaging machinery is designed with bakeries, butchers, fishmongers, and all feed-through supermarket producers. Operating at a fast rate, with the ability to be deep cleaned, they are suitable for any size of operation. The machines come as dedicated units for specialty food packing or can handle numerous products from multiple infeed conveyor lines.

Larger units can be fully automated; there are more manual alternatives such as a pizza capper shrink system, ready meal sealing machine, tray seal lidding machines, and hand stretch wrapping machines. Each of these can be adapted to suit larger end-of-line operations with subsequent labelling and further palletisation.

There are of course larger commercial sealing machines for food packaging, typical semi-automatic L sealers, automatic flow wrappers, and spiral wrappers. All of our machinery can be built from scratch and custom-built in stainless steel. Should you require conveyor belts, label shrink tunnels, and jaw sealers, we are perfectly placed to adapt to your needs.

Notwithstanding that with every customized unit, we will be able to supply bespoke clear trays for modified atmosphere packaging and packaging film in any size of micron required in both food-grade PVC and Polyolefin. Contact us today for further information on a custom sealing machine for food packaging production lines today.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/heavy-duty-shrink-wrap-film-v-heavy-duty-shrink-film>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Heavy Duty Shrink Wrap Film v Heavy Duty Shrink Film

As a [shrink wrap machine stockist](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery.html) and maintenance contractor, it's easy to get carried away with the more subtle shrink film approaches that the finer microns offer the food and retail industry. Clearer, food-safe PVC and Polyolefin have their place, but when it comes to industrial usage and shrink wrapping larger products, then most will turn to heavy-duty shrink wrap film to meet their business needs.

The types of businesses that tend to buy into heavy-duty shrink film are cabinet makers, companies supplying to the building trade, and shutter, door, window, and even timber and tool manufacturers. To ensure items are received in the best possible condition. Sometimes storage for many months, even years, is required, and if being moved around or placed in a dusty warehouse, shrink wrap that is heavy duty can save a product from being damaged in many ways.

Whether you supply automotive parts, home furnishings, shelving, or large plush toys, we will help you navigate through the many features of [automatic heavy duty shrink wrap machines](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/fully-automatic-l-sealers.html) that will be used to wrap your products in heavy-duty shrink wrap film. Features which may include bespoke additions such as tubular steel frames, multiple rolls of films and automatic changeover, top and bottom sealer bars, and any number of labelling and conveyor belt options.

Custom heavy-duty shrink film machines can work with product heights and widths that measure up to 48 inches and as low as 8 inches, with any length in-between catered for. Simply by using laser tech to notify when the L sealer should seal and move the conveyor and product through to shrinking. Larger sizes can also be catered for with custom-made solutions.

Making use of a [heavy duty shrink wrap film](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-films.html) will ensure all those unforeseen scratches and scrapes are instead transferred to the new outer and second skin of your product, instead of the actual product itself. Reducing product returns and damage and ensuring longevity no matter how many times the object is transported, while ensuring the wrap is still clear for identification and can work with multiple labelling machine options.

For advice and tips on which heavy-duty shrink wrap film you should be buying to wrap your products, please contact one of our engineers today. We'll call back at your earliest convenience with all-knowing knowledge on which micron thickness will suit, the best shrink wrap machinery to operate with heavy-duty film, and plan your production or distribution line at a pre-scheduled meeting at our factory HQ.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/custom-built-sealing-machines-for-trays>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Custom Built Sealing Machines For Trays

Have you ever seen a nerd or geek get really excited about reaching the unreachable level on a game? Well, picture that moment and imagine the looks on our faces when waxing lyrical about the very latest in automatic sealing machines for trays. Over the moon, ecstatic, and truly amazed are understatements when considering a tray sealer that can operate at speeds of 200 packs per minute.

Today [shrink wrap machinery](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery.html) isn't merely about speed either. Constantly informed that our customers are keen on being seen as energy efficient, equipment needs to be the same also. Design and usage of space is just as important too. While some machines for sealing trays are huge and elephant-sized, others could fit at the side of a desk for testing purposes or resemble that of an Apollo space shuttle.

We understand your shrink film machinery needs for your business, whether dealing in ready meals for the elderly or stationery sets for children in schools. There are many different objects and foodstuffs that need to be assembled in trays, kept upright throughout, fast but steady, and packaged with care in mind.

By far the most important factor in keeping everything in place is the automated or [semi automatic sealing machine](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/semi-automatic-l-sealers.html) for trays which you may or may not currently have the budget for. Drilling down on precise requirements will enable you to decide upon a cash purchase or spread across monthly installments on finance for cash flow purposes, especially if requiring more than one shrink wrap machine.

Our units come as standard or can be fully customized and tailored to your unique specifications. All steel or mixed materials, bespoke parts additions such as wider in-feeds or multiple, lasers, kissing devices, attachable conveyors resized. Select any model for conversion, complete with two-minute tool changeover, from 30 ppm to over 200 packs per minute.

- Features can include MAP and SkinPAC compatibility,
- rotary table,
- portable or fixed,
- tool docking systems,
- tracking and RFID access,
- and any number of additional custom additions made to sealing machines for trays.

Hot or cold, food or non-food, all stainless steel or mixed, entire production line or single unit, we are ready to advise and review your current set up and ensure maximum output when it comes to sealing those trays, no matter their size, weight, or contents.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/shrink-wrap-machinery-and-new-start-ups>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Shrink Wrap Machinery And New Start Ups

Being an entrepreneur is a term that you're starting to get used to. It opens doors, it's mysterious, and a great conversation piece wherever you go. Deep down though, it's scary, real, and nothing like what other people imagine. More than half of all businesses will sell, manufacture, or distribute a product that requires shrink wrap machinery.

Shrink wrap is so engrained in society today that people make use of it when moving home and even on an industrial scale, wrapping buildings to boats. What makes your idea so remarkable that it doesn't need the aid of a shrink wrap machine too? It costs, yes, but everything costs as a new start up.

You are fast figuring out that anything that does cost has to save you money in the long run. Especially if it is seen as an additional expense. Who could argue that for an unquantifiable business with less stats on demand than a current company, an automated production line is more expensive than a few weekend staff on part-time payroll?

Shrink Wrapping Supplies certainly wouldn't. We would question how you envisage your company growing, however. How you see yourself and part-time laborers meeting demand when it rises. We have experienced staff at our company who can aid in designing your production line and factoring in current and future product demand when it comes to putting in place any kind of shrink wrap machinery, right down to floor space requirements.

For someone who understands the production process, the workings and abilities of shrink wrap machinery and its technology can still be overwhelming. It's pretty much like putting a puzzle together, but not just finding the right pieces; each of the right-sized pieces can have different functions too.

Should you choose a conveyor belt or an in-line feeder? Do you require an L sealer with tunnel or chamber, or can you buy separately? Do you need to have two lines running towards one piece of shrink wrap machinery, or a faster production line running towards two separate shrink film machines that wrap different sized products?

Furthermore, do you need a carton sealer, flow wrapper, pallet wrapper, label machine, and do you need software to go with it all and manage the entire process? It doesn't matter if you're a clued-up entrepreneur or been in the business years. One quick phone call to us, and all your shrink wrap machinery questions will be answered. Don't waste time browsing the net; call us right now.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/planning-for-high-speed-shrink-wrapping-machines>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Planning For High Speed Shrink Wrapping Machines

Production lines have existed ever since man started putting food in containers for local storage. For thousands of years, man has been trying to make the process of curating, production, and distribution the fastest possible, but also the cheapest to get to market. With high-speed shrink wrapping machines, you are marking a pivotal point in your company's history.

The phrase that you can only go as fast as the slowest person in the team does ring true with most enterprises and shop floors. There is little point packing boxes at a rate of 2000 per hour if you can only load one pallet of 50 boxes an hour. At some point, the whole chain of events will have to shut down.

Whether bottling, sifting items into a tray, strapping cartons, labelling, sorting, shrink wrapping whole pallets, or manoeuvring products through an L sealer's heat chamber, timing is of the essence. You cannot simply chuck a product through a high-speed shrink wrapping machine without first considering the speed of the entire line and settings on each unit.

It's all well and good being fast, but if not timed correctly, food products may still be warm, causing condensation in the shrink wrap. If lines go too quickly and the shrink tunnel is sped up to match, the shrink film machine may not seal or wrap properly, causing one of many noticeable lesions on the surface.

Manual labor in any highly automated production line also needs attention to detail. You cannot expect a human to keep up with a machine at a fast rate without proper timing, meal breaks, or rest periods. The level of automation when contemplating working alongside mankind needs careful thought when putting in place a high-speed shrink wrapping machine.

Shrink Wrapping Supplies offer you the chance to have your entire operations reviewed by us. There are pros and cons for use of each high-speed machine for shrink wrapping. Units in the chain can be swapped out in existing lines or upgraded, and where necessary, a custom shrink wrap could be built to accommodate different factors of your production or distribution process.

In some instances, a line may be made to be faster by splitting different box sizes or different operations, either creating two in-feed lines or numerous end-of-line shrink wrap units. Software aids in our decision making, as well as years of experience in calculating the best use of high-end, high-speed shrink wrapping machines to match your budget. Call us today.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/used-and-secondhand-shrink-wrap-machine-for-budgeting>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Used and Secondhand Shrink Wrap Machine For Budgeting

As a business owner, you might be looking at the cost of new [shrink film machines](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery.html) and thinking they are beyond your current ability to reinvest. Don't worry; this isn't an unusual concern. In fact, a refurbished secondhand shrink wrap machine can be seen as a wise move in some cases, either for an entrepreneur just starting out or as a second machine to meet an increased demand that will be short-lived.

Of course, you will expect to meet demand in a more professional context in the near future, but if an order is unexpected or there's an unusual peak during off-season, turning to a secondhand model that is both cheap and reliable will certainly solve your current problems. All of our models have been tested, refitted with new parts where necessary, and will come with certain guarantees for their longevity.

We don't just take receipt of older models and pass them off as secondhand shrink wrap machinery without ensuring that they are in full working order. Rigorous testing takes place before even issuing it with a certificate that is ready for despatch. Our reputation relies on delivering both high-end new machinery as well as used L sealers and shrink wrap tunnels.

Is it possible to build an entire production line with secondhand shrink wrap machines? Yes, it is. Though we would like to highlight the positives of a new machine over that of used. Even if your current budget can't stretch to a much-needed £10,000 [shrink tunnel and L sealer](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery.html), our machine finance options enable you to take more care of your cash flow and reinvest on monthly terms without worrying about an upfront outlay immediately.

[Second hand shrink wrap machinery](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/shrink-wrap-machinery/used-machinery.html) can come in the form of a used stainless steel shrink wrap machine for cheese and breaded products, a used shrink wrap tunnel oven, and we can also source and refurbish upon demand. When it comes to food production and stainless steel machines, we ensure they are deep cleaned and ready for the food environment again, with all parts cleaned as new.

If you wish to discuss your current production line needs or visit our factory base to test out your product, please call us today. We would hope that even if your cash flow only allows for a secondhand shrink wrap machine, that our finance team could possibly arrange accommodating finance options that enable you to buy new shrink film machinery instead, which would offer more security and full maintenance cover going forward.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/how-to-choose-the-correct-shrink-wrap-machine>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# How To Choose The Correct Shrink Wrap Machine

Your company may directly manufacture products on site and need a packaging option, or your operation is part of a long chain that sees goods packaged before delivery to retailers and wholesalers. Choosing the correct machine is easier than you might think.

We are contacted almost on a daily basis and bombarded with questions, which we are all too ready to answer and assist with. The most obvious result from employing an automatic machine is the ability to drive down costs instead of employing manual labor. For a new start up, the savings can be substantial.

But where to begin? Do you select secondhand shrink wrap machines or new? And do you require custom alterations or a whole new shrink wrap set up entirely? While we are at hand to answer your questions, and you can visit for a demo on any of our shrink wrap machines, here's a quick rundown on how to choose a shrink wrap machine.

## Output

Investing in machinery will be one of your biggest costs. You need to not only consider your current volume requirements, but your operation in six months to a year. If you need to shrink wrap under fifty items a day, you may be best off with a hand impulse sealer and a heat gun or a portable I-Bar Sealer.

However, if volume will be between 50 and 250 a day in the medium term, a semi-automatic option in the form of a Shrink Tunnel / Chamber Machine, or for higher volume, Semi-Auto L Sealers and fully Automatic L Sealers that can process over 1500 items an hour.

## Size

Every company has different sized items to package, ranging from pens and pencils and trays to whole pallets. Shrink Film and wrapping is a fantastic invention, and you can wrap anything from mugs to entire buildings. Rather than buying different machinery for each job, simply select your largest item, and the machine will be capable of wrapping your smallest objects.

We offer a range of specialist machines from whole Pallet Wrap machines to trickier solutions for lengthy bundles of pipes or similar shaped objects, which can be shrink wrapped with a Spiral Wrapper and boxes contained by a Strapping machine.

## Speed

The old adage of time is money is crucial when it comes to a shrink wrap operation. The ability to maximize the production line so it is efficient and yet fast at the same time. Each of our machines come with guidelines on how many products can be wrapped per minute or hour. A Flow Wrapper being the most ingenious.

## Systems

If your sole agenda is simply getting a product wrapped in a timely fashion, then a standalone automatic shrink wrap machine will suffice. However, if you are involved in production, there may be a whole chain of events previous that requires a more finished solution.

In which case, you may find it helpful to ask our engineers to draw you a detailed system which includes any or all of the following: Conveyors - to feed the objects, a Carton Sealer - to automate box sealing, a Labelling machine, friction feeders, and of course, the choosing of a suitable shrink wrap machine.

## Costs

Our solutions can range from the hundreds to thousands of pounds. With the fastest, most complex machine coming in at over £20,000. How do you justify spend and calculate profitability? If switching from manual labor, the savings are a no-brainer.

With years of expertise in development and installation, we can assess your current set up and growth targets and advise on running costs, maintenance, and offer finance to assist in entry-level purchases.

## Maintenance

Unless you have a trained engineer on site to resolve any machine issues, it is recommended that you take up a service option. With 24-hour call out, you need not worry about delays when it comes to packaging or paying over the top for parts replacement.

To read about the choices of machines available to you and how each machine performs individual tasks, view the Machinery descriptions or browse the FAQ for more answers. [Contact us](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/contact-us) today for free advice and a free demo.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/the-world-of-shrink-wrap-machines-and-product-possibilities>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# The World of Shrink Wrap Machines And Product Possibilities

While our company deals with both small and large line packing operations, supplying shrink wrap film for shrink wrapping machines up and down the country and Europe-wide, we thought we'd take a look at the great many situations in which shrink wrapping has become commonplace.

As a business owner, you are fully aware of the benefits that shrink film has to offer. Rolls of the stuff in different specifications—from PVC Shrink Film, Polythene Shrink film, and Polyolefin Shrink film—are used on millions upon millions of products worldwide.

But did you know there is also a much tougher film that isn't of the center-folded 15 micron and 28 micron variety? These are termed construction grade, marine grade, and professional grade shrink film. This is used to wrap scaffold towers, offer building site containment, and wrap entire buildings as well as boats, transporters, and even army helicopters.

It is incredible to think that almost every industry on the face of the planet can make use of this to either deliver, conceal, or protect their products and services. It is also good to know that the majority of new products such as Polyolefin film are 100% recyclable, so you no longer have to consider the effects on your company's carbon footprint when it comes to shrink film packaging, which is usually discarded at point of delivery or usage.

There are of course a variety of different materials that can be used to deliver products, and there is no sole reason for choosing machines over another method. That's to say, there's usually multiple reasons. Let's look at a few of the many trades and instances where they deliver above and beyond the call of duty.

## Speed Of Operations

The phrase "you're only as fast as your slowest team member" rings true when it comes to manufacturing and distribution. If you are able to bottle beer at the rate of 20 bottles a second and the manual labor can only package and despatch 10 bottles a second, your company is losing money. Shrink wrapping can match and exceed your production targets.

## Driving Down Costs

The investment in a machine may well be costly at the first turn. Though with finance, that is a more manageable aspect. Case studies overwhelmingly show that a machine and system can not only outperform manual labor but save a significant percentage in expenditure when compared against employee benefits, wages, and irregular work efforts. A machine may need maintenance, but it doesn't need lunch or holiday time.

## Security & Confidence

A buyer for a retailer will always look to purchase the lowest costed product for maximum profitability. However, they also consider the opinion of their customers. If a product is sealed and unopened, a customer has confidence in the product they are buying; this is just as important as a penny profit.

## Safety & Containment

Many food distributors and those working in the cosmetics and drinks industry are required to ensure their product is safe. If it is a consumable, then tamper-proof packaging and seals offer containment from alien substances and ensure safe delivery and easier inspection. You can shrink seals, keep food fresher, and ensure perfumes and deodorants are not expended before final sale.

The world of shrink wrap machines is an ever-expanding utility that serves an ever-increasing trade product base. The fact shrink film is now 100% recyclable will only go on to promote the use of shrink film packaging further. If you need a packaging solution that seals, secures, protects, contains, offers confidence, safety, and lowers business costs and heightens production, then there really is only one solution.

Yes, shrink wrapping machines and recyclable shrink films!

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/how-we-can-supply-customised-shrink-wrap-machines>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# How We Can Supply Customised Shrink Wrap Machines

Every business involved in manufacturing, production, assembly, and distribution of products operates differently from each other. No two company operations are ever truly the same. Different sized boxes and items to wrap, labelling requirements, environment issues, space allotted within premises - single or dual floor setup, bespoke speeds, and financial constraints.

Before you arrive at the decision that you require a custom machine, it is important to first sit down with one of our engineers to discuss your entire operation. We can then consider your wishes and see if your needs can be met by a current or range of existing shrink wrap machinery with complementary packing line equipment. The first step is to take advantage of our free machine demo. While many company representatives come along to simply test machines and witness their product being successfully wrapped, it's possible that your demands are more bespoke.

In which case, it's helpful to send in all information regarding your operation, from size of product and rate of production, alongside any relevant documentation, so we can move forward on the day. We have supplied customised machines to a wide variety of trades, from meat packers to dairy farms, bottling companies, hamper fulfilment, and for a packing line for fixing safety sealant on jars.

Whether your products are individual, small, boxed, in a tray, bottles, fresh produce, frozen food, dairy or chemical, low or high temperature clean environments, we have the engineers and experience to design and deliver custom shrink wrap machines upon request. It may be the case that you only need to make minor shrink wrap machine modifications for your enterprise, such as the addition of specialist sleeve sealers or the ability to work with different shrink film products.

Food producers may require food-quality stainless steel machines due to cold or wet production; these custom machines for shrink wrapping can all be tailored. As an example, for the dairy and bottling trade, speed is often essential.

Associated conveyor belts may need small modifications made or the inclusion of a variable speed in-feed conveyor with a twin lane diverter system. Our engineers can develop entire line systems for packaging to ensure your operation is faster and more efficient, bringing down costs and increasing production times. Please consider us as your first point of contact for custom shrink wrap machines.

We have a wealth of knowledge on devising specialist systems with wide sleeve sealers, high-speed bottle shrink wrappers, can modify L Sealers for any retail operation, or for that matter, modify any of our current shrink wrap machinery and tailor each to your exact requirements.

Please complete the [enquiry form](https://shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/contact-us "Enquiry Form") or call and we'll arrange a free demo and appointment with a design engineer immediately.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/can-i-hire-shrink-wrapping-equipment-prior-to-purchasing>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Can I Hire Shrink Wrapping Equipment Prior To Purchasing?

Directly no, indirectly yes. To differentiate between the options on offer, we are unable to hire shrink wrapping machines out to businesses for short periods of time or as a trial. If you wish to trial any of our machinery, we invite you to attend a shrink wrap machine demo at our Cheshire factory in Hyde.

Alternatively, we can take receipt of your product, wrap it for free, and return it as an example. We do however have two finance options which can help alleviate the cost of purchasing shrink wrap equipment and associated line packing machinery. After you are satisfied with the shrink wrap machine trial and that it meets your business needs going forward, you can apply for either a Hire Purchase agreement or a Finance Lease.

**Hire Purchase:** We work with loan management companies that take on your debt, and in return, you pay a deposit and the calculated VAT at the time of payment.

Payment can then be paid monthly over a period of one to five years. At the end of the term, the machine is rightfully yours and is accountable from the outset as a depreciating asset.

**Finance Lease:** Many large companies prefer to finance lease equipment.

While you will never own the equipment, you can sell the machine on to another party and retain up to 95% of the sale proceeds. Such an agreement is subject to VAT on payments and interest. Many competitors hire out shrink wrapping machinery in a similar manner.

It's worth checking exactly who you will be paying and signing a contract with. We provide some of the best finance options on the market, and with our Price Match guarantee and service offers, your shrink wrap machine needs can easily be met with us.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/do-i-need-shrink-wrap-machine-maintenance-and-servicing>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Do I Need Shrink wrap Machine Maintenance And Servicing?

In today's gadget-laden world, quite a lot of additional insurance and guarantees of servicing that you are offered on washing machines and televisions are not required, as products you buy may fall within home contents insurance cover and typical business insurance.

However, this notion tends not to apply to high-grade, 24-hour operational shrink wrapping machines used for commercial purposes. If you are new to the automated production and packing line arena, you will soon come to understand how important preventative maintenance is to your business. In fact, it is only when you don't proceed with a form of preventative maintenance that you'll find out how dangerous and expensive such a choice can be. It is also worthwhile noting that all heavy machinery falls under certain government Health and Safety legislation with which you should be compliant.

Such rules and maintenance requirements are proven to reduce employee accidents and other hazardous events. They also save your company money on lost downtime and finding faults with parts before they become a real issue. Hence the term preventative maintenance—checks that prevent. Our engineers are fully trained in every aspect of the wrapping machines that we sell, and even machinery that you may already have on your premises, including the variety of complementary line packaging equipment such as conveyors, carton sealers, and labelling machines.

For a yearly fee, your business and staff can operate with peace of mind, as your machinery has been sufficiently checked for faults at least two or three times a year. While you will of course train your staff to clean and keep your machines in good condition, our engineers lubricate where necessary and change seals/parts* and test thoroughly before departure. This type of shrink wrap machine servicing fully covers you for any obligations under UK Health and Safety laws and provides a completed log for record keeping and risk assessment documentation.

It's not often that spending money saves money, but in this instance, we fully believe in the processes of preventative maintenance. We invite you to review the different plans we have in place which provide instant cover. Invariably, you will save on hourly call-out charges, especially if out of hours.

Even if you do not take our cover straight away, the after-sales team will be on hand to assist with any problems or set up issues you have.

We pride ourselves in our customer service, but even more importantly, wish to ensure your shrink wrapping machinery has a long life by correctly maintaining the parts within. Is shrink wrap machine maintenance and servicing essential? In our view, yes.

---

> **URL:** <http://crm.shrinkwrappingsupplies.co.uk/knowledge-base/article/cost-savings-associated-with-a-part-ex-machine>
> **Section:** 14 Buying Guides

# Cost Savings Associated With a Part Ex Machine

Film packaging is the most effective and economic way of producing multipacks of products for distribution and shipment purposes. Shrink wrap equipment is used to package products in a film that is heat-shrunk around the product to create a very tight seal. There are many types of shrink equipment, including L-bar sealers, bundler shrink equipment, flow-through shrink equipment, semi-auto, and tunnel shrink equipment. Each type provides packaging for your product. Once your product is wrapped in shrink film, it will pass through the heat tunnel, which will cause the film to shrink around the product.

A part exchange or part-exchange deal is a type of contract; it has never been referred to as 'p x' in the history of shrink wrap machinery. In a part exchange, instead of one party to the contract paying money and the other party supplying goods/services, both parties supply goods/services, with the first party supplying part money and part goods/services.

With time and use, used shrink wrap machines are becoming less competitive. Their speed decreases compared to new ones, and the functions calculated and incorporated are less adequate for current business needs.

Part-exchanging old shrink wrapping machinery for new machines rather than overhauling an old machine.

When your machine arrives for a rebuild, it's torn down to the frame (i.e., stripped of all its components). The frame is repainted, and the machine is rebuilt with all new mechanical parts as well as an electrical control system.

The actual effect of this is partially renewing the old machine to some level of its initial production. Additionally, the machine can be retrofitted. New machines have obtained serious technological upgrades to the system components and a new guard package. Productivity and speed, as well as new functions, are significantly better. Upon completion of a rebuilt machine, you will receive outdated machinery that will not give you any competitive advantages over your competitor using the new version of this machinery.

When your machine is refurbished, it just goes through cleaning, and worn or damaged components (i.e., bearings, sprockets, chains, wear-strips, etc.) are replaced. This level of maintenance may or may not include an upgrade to your electrical control system. However, your machine will be restored to a level very close to its original OEM specifications. The main problem is that all new machinery has been updated in terms of speed and reliability, and electricity consumption is dramatically reduced.

## Machine Upgrades of part-exchanging an old shrink wrapping machinery for new machines

We enhance your current equipment with a new one, providing you with a new system or feature that was developed after the purchase of your machine. A typical example would be for Sigma Packaging to replace an outdated mechanical feature with a state-of-the-art electronic device, providing new features and enhancements. The resulting system will provide you with machine operational capabilities that are available on newer equipment.

## Services

Our highly qualified technicians are available for preventive maintenance, conversions, updates, and machine audits. Whether your problem is mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, or pneumatic. We identify the problem and find the appropriate solution at the highest value.

=== END of Buying Guides ===